---
layout: default
title: ascii
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

"ascii":/packages/ascii/ is a R package for writing "asciidoc":http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/, "txt2tags":http://txt2tags.sourceforge.net/, "reStructuredText":http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html, "org":http://orgmode.org/ or "textile":http://textile.thresholdstate.com/ documents with embeded R code.




h2. simple output

bc.  <<>>=
 x <- matrix(1:4, 2, 2)
 x
 @ 

gives in the final document:

{% highlight r %}
> x <- matrix(1:4, 2, 2)
> x
     [,1] [,2]
[1,]    1    3
[2,]    2    4 
{% endhighlight %}

h2. a table example

bc.  <<echo = FALSE, results = ascii>>=
 ascii(x)
 @

gives:

|. 1.00 | 3.00 |
| 2.00  | 4.00 | 

The same with some options:

{% highlight r %}
> ascii(x, caption = "A simple matrix", width = 50, digits = 0, align = c("c", 
+     "r"), style = matrix(c("d", "s", "e", "m"), 2, 2), lgroup = "group 1", 
+     tgroup = "group 2")
{% endhighlight %}
A simple matrix

table{width:50%}.
|/1\1. |_\2=-. group 2 |
|_/2=-. group 1 |=. 1   |>. _3_            |
|=. *2* |>. <code>4</code> | 

h2. a list example

bc.  <<echo = FALSE, results = ascii>>=
 y <- summary(with(esoph, table(alcgp, agegp)))
 ascii(y, caption = "A simple list")
 @


.A simple list
* Number of cases in table: 88 
* Number of factors: 2 
* Test for independence of all factors:
** Chisq = 1.4189, df = 15, p-value = 1
** Chi-squared approximation may be incorrect 

h2. what ascii provides

"ascii":/packages/ascii/ provides:

* a generic method: @ascii()@. It creates a plain text representations of many R objects.
* several classic @Sweave@ drivers: @RweaveAsciidoc()@, @RweaveT2t()@, @RweaveReST()@, @RweaveOrg()@ and @RweaveTextile()@.
* "weaver":http://bioconductor.org/packages/2.6/bioc/html/weaver.html based @Sweave@ drivers: @weaverAsciidoc()@, @weaverT2t()@, @weaverReST()@, @weaverOrg()@ and @weaverTextile()@.
* "cacheSweave":http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/cacheSweave/index.html based @Sweave@ drivers: @cacheSweaveAsciidoc()@, @cacheSweaveT2t()@, @cacheSweaveReST()@, @cacheSweaveOrg()@ and @cacheSweaveTextile()@.
* some simple wrappers for @Sweave()@ named @Asciidoc()@, @T2t()@, @ReST()@, @Org()@ and @Textile()@.

h2. ascii methods

ascii provides methods for:

{% highlight r %}
> methods(ascii)
 [1] ascii.anova*              ascii.aov*                ascii.aovlist*           
 [4] ascii.cast_df*            ascii.character*          ascii.coxph*             
 [7] ascii.CrossTable*         ascii.data.frame*         ascii.default*           
[10] ascii.density*            ascii.describe*           ascii.describe.single*   
[13] ascii.factor*             ascii.freqtable*          ascii.ftable*            
[16] ascii.glm*                ascii.htest*              ascii.integer*           
[19] ascii.list*               ascii.lm*                 ascii.matrix*            
[22] ascii.meanscomp*          ascii.numeric*            ascii.packageDescription*
[25] ascii.prcomp*             ascii.sessionInfo*        ascii.simple.list*       
[28] ascii.smooth.spline*      ascii.summary.aov*        ascii.summary.aovlist*   
[31] ascii.summary.glm*        ascii.summary.lm*         ascii.summary.prcomp*    
[34] ascii.summary.survfit*    ascii.summary.table*      ascii.survdiff*          
[37] ascii.survfit*            ascii.table*              ascii.ts*                
[40] ascii.zoo*               

   Non-visible functions are asterisked 
{% endhighlight %}

h2. session info

- R version :=  R version 2.11.1 (2010-05-31), i486-pc-linux-gnu
- locale :=  LC_CTYPE=fr_FR.utf8, LC_NUMERIC=C, LC_TIME=fr_FR.utf8, LC_COLLATE=fr_FR.utf8, LC_MONETARY=C, LC_MESSAGES=fr_FR.utf8, LC_PAPER=fr_FR.utf8, LC_NAME=C, LC_ADDRESS=C, LC_TELEPHONE=C, LC_MEASUREMENT=fr_FR.utf8, LC_IDENTIFICATION=C
- attached base packages :=  stats, graphics, grDevices, utils, datasets, methods, base
- other attached packages :=  ascii_0.7-1, proto_0.3-8
- loaded via a namespace (and not attached) := tools_2.11.1 

h2. source of this documentation

"see there":/packages/ascii/index.Rnw.
